                              CANADIAN     INSTITUT
                              SPORT        CANADIEN
                              INSTITUTE    DU SPORT
Stuffed Chicken Breast Bonanza


Extremely versatile, chicken breasts are protein rich and easily batch cooked. Make extra each week to slice
for sandwiches, add to salads, pasta or grain bowls or cubed for a perfect pre-bed protein snack.
Adding anti-inflammatory spices, herbs and veggies increase overall nutrition and flavour for a great meal
supporting your training and recovery.


INGREDIENTS
4 large boneless, skinless chicken breasts                   S
½ tsp garlic powder or 1 – 2 garlic cloves minced
12 oil packed sundried tomato, drained
2 cups arugula or other favourite green
100 grams goat cheese (chèvre or feta)
Sea salt and fresh ground pepper to taste
2 Tbsp. extra virgin olive oil (EVOO)

DIRECTIONS
 1.     Line a baking sheet with parchment
 2.     With a sharp knife cut a deep horizontal slit through thickest part of the breast but do not cut all the
        way through (see picture)
 3.     Open and season with garlic, salt and pepper to taste
 4.     Stuff the rest of ingredients into the breast (divided between the 4 breasts). Press the chicken breast
        back together to hold the filling inside
 5.     Pre-heat oven to 327 degrees F
 6.     Heat oil in a skillet on medium high and carefully sear each breast until lightly golden (~2 min/side)
 7.     Set chicken on baking sheet into oven for approximately 20 minutes (do not overcook)
NOTES
Serve with brown basmati rice, quinoa, potato or pasta and favorite veggies or salad.
Bake an apple at the same time for dessert – see Immune handout for recipe.


ADDITIONAL STUFFING SUGGESTIONS
Here are a few ideas to mix up this dish – be creative and let your taste buds be your guide.
Layer in apple or pear slices, thinly sliced fresh parmesan, grana Padano or Asiago and crumbled walnut or
pecan pieces
Fresh spinach or kale, fresh grated lemon peel, feta cheese and pesto amounts to taste
Favorite salsa and cheddar or jack cheese
Mix a small minced garlic clove, a couple tsp. minced jalapeño and a minced green onion into 4 ounces cream
cheese for chicken breast poppers