   CANADIAN     INSTITUT
   SPORT        CANADIEN
   INSTITUTE    DU SPORT



   Pan- Fried Glazed Pork Chops by Jamie Oliver
   Try this delici ous way to create moist and flavourful pork. Be sure to fry up the sage leaves –
   not only are they a great source of antioxidants (polyphenols) they taste incredible!

   INGREDIENTS
   2 x 8- ounce pork chops or 4, 4 ounce pork shoulder steaks
   olive oil                                                 Thets
   sea salt (for better flavour profile)
   freshly ground black pepper
   4 springs (or more) of fresh sage
   optional: one lemon
   2 large Tbsp. applesauce, mango chutney, apricot jam,
   maple syrup, or honey, to glaz e



   DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING       THE ME AT
   Using a very sharp knife, or kitc hen scissors, carefully trim the skin off the edges of each chop /steak –
   you’re going to turn this into crackling (optional).  Cut each strip of skin lengthways into 2 strips, so you
   end up with 4 strips in total. Use a sharp knife to make cuts every 1/4 inch along the fa t remaining on
   the chops –this will help it render and crisp up while cooking. Rub both sides of the chops with olive oil
   and season really well with salt and pepper. While you’re at it, season your strips of skin. Pick the sage
   leaves off their stalks, toss them lightly in a little olive oil, and put to one side.

   DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING THE MEAT
   Put a frying pan over a high heat and add your strips of skin. Move them about in the hot pan and remove
   them when golden, crisp, and crackling. Lay both chops /steaks flat in the pan and give them 3-4 minutes
   on each side, turning every minute. When they’re looking golden, add a few sage leaves to the pan.        Let
   them crisp up and cook for about 30 seconds, then remove them to a plate. Spoon a large tablespoon of
   your chosen glazing ingredient over each chop/steak.           Keep turning the meat  over until  nicely
   coated.               Cook them until they are almost a dark reddish- golden color and wonderfully thi ck and
   sticky. Remove to a plate and let them rest for a minute or two, squeezing over a little lemon juice if you
   want to balance out the sweetness.

   Serve with the crackling (optional) the crispy sage leaves and  rice        or mashed potatoes to soak up the
   juices . Lovely with some dressed veggies and a fresh salad .

           Nutrient Breakdown per ½ recipe:
           Calories 530           Protein 36    Carbs 19 grams    Fat 33 grams (less if no crackling)



ROWING
CANADA
AVIRON