 CANADIAN     INSTITUT
  SPORT       CANADIEN
INSTITUTE     DU SPORT


    Chicken Shawarma - Wrap or Buddha Bowl

    Easy to make, this scrumptious Chicken Shawarma is protein rich and covered in antioxidant and anti-
    inflammatory spices. Add herbs, veggies and yogurt sauce for additional nutrients and serve as a wrap or as a
    Buddha Bowl and you have a great meal for supporting your training and recovery.


    INGREDIENTS
    3 lb boneless, skinless chicken thighs (slightly more fat and iron plus better flavour for a lovely finished product)

    For the Dry Rub:
        ▪     2 tsp paprika
        ▪     2 tsp cumin
        ▪     3 – 4 garlic cloves or 1 tsp garlic powder
        ▪     1 tsp onion powder
        ▪     1 tsp allspice
        ▪     1 tsp ground turmeric
        ▪     1 tsp kosher salt
        ▪     ¼ tsp ground cinnamon
        ▪     ¼ tsp freshly ground black pepper
        ▪     ⅛ tsp cayenne
        ▪     2 TB extra virgin olive oil

    DIRECTIONS
     1.  In a large bowl, whisk together all the spices to combine well. Add 2 TB olive oil and mix into a paste. Set
         aside.
     2.  Slice each thigh into quarters and add chicken into the bowl with the marinade. Use tongs or clean hands
         to thoroughly coat all pieces of chicken evenly, on all sides. Cover tightly with cling wrap and chill
         overnight (at least 3-4 hours.)
     3.  Let chicken come to room temp as you preheat oven to 400F, with rack on upper middle position.
     4.  Place chicken pieces in a single layer on a large, foil-lined baking sheet. Take care not to overlap or
         overcrowd the pieces. Roast 15 min or until just cooked.
     5.  Let chicken cool enough to handle. Slice chicken into thin slices and serve.


    NOTES
    Chicken Shawarma can be served bowl-style with basmati rice or quinoa or wrapped in a pita with your choice
    of toppings.
    Try it with hummus, yogurt dip, tomato, cucumbers, red onions, shredded greens and or pickles.
    Garnish with lots of cilantro or parsley and a squeeze of fresh lime or lemon

    Nutrient Breakdown per recipe not including toppings, rice or pita:
    Calories 1890  Protein 268  Carbs 0 grams  Fat 84 grams

    ROWING
    CANADA
    AVIRON